The Joe Rogan experience. The story's crazy. Yeah, it's crazy.
And I think it's also a really important part of human history.
Imagine if the whistleblower had not come forward and we didn't know
about MK ultra and, and, and all those documents didn't get,
they didn't find the warehouse where the documents were. Right, right.
Just imagine.
Oh yeah, we never, would've known about be lost.
Like Kaiser. Nobody.
Will say nobody in the program has ever come out and, and talked about it. Yeah.
I mean, I went to a couple of the guys who were still alive.
Wouldn't talk to me. Of course. I mean, they always fall back on, you know,
we sign an oath with the agency, right. If we talk to you without permission,
and they're not gonna give us permission, we could go to prison.
Just imagine what life must have been like for them,
knowing that this is what they were doing to people. Oh yeah.
It's so that's such a strange way to it. Also,
these people are agents for the federal government. I mean,
what kind of precedent does this establish?
Well, most of the people doing the research were subcontracted researchers.
Atpri, you know, medical personnel at prisons. And in the case of jolly west,
he was first in the air force.
And then he was in university settings and jolly was <laugh>, you know,
once he got to university of Oklahoma, he was experimenting on patients.
And in one of his letters to Gotley asking for more funding,
he's saying working with psychiatric patients actually benefits us
because people can't I'm, um,
not quoting directly here, but he's,
he was making the argument that their weird behavior wouldn't be noticed by
anybody at the hospitals because they're psychiatric patients.
So these people are getting LSD,
which is a pretty powerful drug and other drugs he was using. Uh,
and he was hypnotizing them in some of, many of his experiments without,
without their knowledge and their psychiatric patients. I mean,
it's worse than Nazis. Your mind is, you know, the next,
most important thing besides your soul and they're tampering with it. Hmm.
You know, uh,
one of Jo's co was a guy who actually took over the department when jolly in 69,
came out to UCLA, from Oklahoma, uh, said to me, cuz I,
again, I would do this with people. I would show them all the documents. And,
and he said he always, west was one of his best friends. He'd known him for,
I think 45 years when Wests died in 99, he said, but he said to me,
um, Jo,
it doesn't surprise me that he would've done this.
This is the Jack Ruby's stuff, which I guess you haven't gotten to yet.
Mm-mm <negative> jolly was Jack Ruby's psychiatrist. Oh, Jesus.
<laugh> it's a whole.
That makes sense too, right? Yeah.
Jack. Well, uh, actually I won't spoil was shoot a photo of.
Jack Ruby out in the hallway.
I did. I was impressed. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
you're gonna get to about 30 or 40 pages on Jack Ruby and jolly west. I,
I, I'll just,
I don't wanna spoil it for you or for the listeners if they haven't read the
book yet, but, um,
jolly west inserted himself into the Ruby case after Ruby was
convicted of shooting and,
and killing Oswald in the spring of 64,
before he was gonna testify to the Warren commission, he had never told, uh,
he had never testified at his trial about why he, he killed Oswald.
His defense argument was that, uh,
he had epilepsy and he had had an epileptic fit and shot him and was amnesic
O of the, of the, the shooting. Holy. Uh,
yeah. So, and that fits right into the narrative, like a key, well,
this gets better. So Wes in certain pull that microphone out towards your face.
Oh, sorry. It's all right. So what she just youre getting to this? Yeah, yeah.
Move.
So west inserts himself into the case gets a sign through his connections to
Ruby's new lawyer, Hubert Winston Smith. Who's a whole other kettle of Phish.
But anyway, goes to the Dallas county in,
I think it was April of 64 to examine Ruby in preparation for
not the Warren commission testimony, which he was giving in a couple months,
but for his next trial, cuz he, he had gotten a new, uh, or an appeal, uh,
for a psychiatric review and west who had told Sidney Gottlieb
in, in these early letters from the fifties that part of his experiments were
inducing insanity and a person without their awareness.
Wes goes to examine Ruby emerges from the county jail and there's press
waiting for him. And he announces that within the proceeding 48 hours,
um, Ruby had had an,
a psychotic break that was, uh, irrevocableable it,
it couldn't, he couldn't return to sanity.
He had audio and visual hallucinations during the exam. He said,
Ruby hit under a table cuz he thought there were people in the room trying to
kill him,
told Wes that he could hear children screams outside his jail cell as
Jewish children, as they were boiled alive. And Wes said,
he's completely insane.
That was the day.
I mean there was no evidence of Ruby being mentally ill
prior to Wes's exam. Wes was alone with him in the cell and they,
and treated him for about six months when Ruby finally
gave his testimony to the Warren commission. So, uh, Earl Warren, chief justice,
Warren, who was head of the commission, flew down to Dallas with um,
Gerald Ford who was, uh, in Congress and,
and on the commission and AR inspectorter the young AR I specter who was as an
investigator for the Warren commission who eventually came up with the,
the magic bullet theory. Uh,
he called it the magic bullet conclusion anyway, um, the three of them,
uh, you know,
put Ruby under oath and Ruby bble was incoherent,
grabbed a inspectorter who was like him Jewish. And he said, don't, you know,
they're killing Jews. Uh, and,
and they've killed my brother and cut off his legs.
I hear them being tortured outside my, myself. They couldn't use anything. Um,
west,
that was one of his objectives in his MCAL to research was to make people
in, do insanity without a person's awareness.
Was there any contact with Jack Ruby before he killed.
All? That was again,
that was one of the things I can't tell you how hard you no. Oh,
you mean we before you mean we and Ruby, anyone.
Anyone, it could have done something to get Osal yeah. To kill Ru Ruby, no.
Ruby to kill O Ruby to kill Osborn. Uh, Ruby. Yeah. Ruby had a lot of, uh,
connections, toorganize crime and federal.
He was part of which later emerged of the anti Castro Cuban effort
to overthrow Fidel Castro, which was run.
It was operation Mon goose by the CIA. It was an,
an illegal assassination program. Ruby denied being in it.
And that's in the book.
I found out that again through west papers that I got access to Ruby
admitted, never, that he stalked and killed Oswalt on the orders
of, of anyone,
but that he working with these people who were suspected of being involved
in the assassination,
if there was a conspiracy and he had never admitted that to anyone. Uh,
it's only in, in west file and Wes withheld that.
So let's break that down. So for people that don't know, the, the,
the primary theory of who was responsible,
if there was a consnspiracy nspiracy to kill Kennedy.
And one of the thoughts was that it had to do with some sort of
a CIA operation to overthrow Castro.
Yeah. Well, there was,
so the Warren commission concluded that Oswald acted alone was no conspiracy.
Alan dolls, Dallas,
the former head of the CIA who was fired by John AF Kennedy,
um, was second in command to,
to judge Warren and the commission Richard Helms,
who was actually jolly west employer for MK ultra was the liaison
between the CIA and the commission.
So Helms knew that Ruby,
who they had call their most important witness in their investigation,
the Warren commission investigation,
because he was the one who silenced the killer.
There could be no trial for Oswal cuz he was dead.
So they tried to learn everything they could about, uh,
Ruby to see if he had had any meetings with Oswal prior or if he had
connections beyond the superficial ones to organize crime.
Was there something deeper? Um, the commission,
which I believe was, you know, a joke from the beginning,
it was set to determine, I mean they said in the beginning,
their objective was to prove that Oswal acted alone. Um,
they came up with that conclusion, but after the first intelligence,
Senate intelligence hearings in the,
in the early seventies that exposed MK ultra chaos,
cotel pro primarily that the Frank Church hearings, uh,
they found out that in dull and Helms and others had lied about the
CIA's involvement with Oswald and,
and with their own agents who had had these peripheral. Um,
we don't know if they were peripheral or not,
but definitely encounters with Oswald. They withheld all that.
So the house voted to have what they call the house select committee on assassin
nations that began in 77, in 78, they released their report,
which they concluded there was a,
a probable conspiracy to kill Kennedy that Oswal didn't
act alone. And you know, it's, there's lots of books about that. Yeah. Uh,
and in their findings. And then later the two, the head of the committee,
Robert Blakely wrote a book where he said that that Ruby had acted
on behalf of, um,
the conspiracy to silence Oswald that he had stalked him,
premeditated the murder. And, uh, that the whole thing was part of, of,
of keeping the secret was Wes a part of that,
you know, again, I can't prove it.
I wanted to find out if Wes had had any encounter or any, you know,
interaction with Ruby prior to Ruby committing the murder.
Couldn't find that. And that's the kind of thing that maybe there's no evidence,
maybe it happened, but there's no evidence,
but I wasn't gonna put it in the book. Uh,
and I exhausted every resource I had, you know.
Because that, that one has always been so puzzling for me,
cuz here's this guy that's not connected to the Mo murder allegedly and then
steps forward and shoots Oswald in front of everybody. Yeah.
Sentencing himself. I mean like there's no doubt about it. Yeah.
You're the guy who did it. Yeah. Everyone saw it. Right.
You're gonna go to jail forever. Right. Why.
Would you do that? Well, the first report, which was, uh,
fabricated by his first lawyer who admitted this years and years later, uh,
he told Ruby to say he did it to spare Jackie Kennedy from having to come to
Dallas for a trial of Oswalt. Yeah. That was made up made no sense.
And then Mel BEAI was assigned to the case, uh, was, I mean,
Ruby fired like three lawyers in the first couple weeks,
the Mel Mel Mevin BEAI took over and took it to trial.
And his argument was that he had had an epileptic fit and didn't know what he
was doing. And when he was grabbed by the, the cops, after he shot Ozal,
he said, Hey, I'm Ruby. What, what am I doing here? What are you doing to me?
Don't you know who I am? Cause he knew all the cops. Um,
my argument in my book is it's important.
My most important finding is that a CIA contracted agent
or researcher for mind control
became the most important witness to the Warren commission.
He became that witness's doctor right before he testified and told his story.
I go, that should have been disclosed obviously to the commission,
but they're not gonna say it cuz it's a secret for program. Right.
And then he goes crazy and then he goes crazy. Uh,
I got told by a couple of the people who were, um,
nobody on the commission would talk to me that was alive when I started pursuing
them. Um, Joel Ford, wouldn't talk to me. Uh, AR I specter.
I, I think I mentioned that to you before. There's an interesting, um, uh,
I approached Dar inspectorter who was running for reelection.
This was 2002 and told him I had new information
and he had Al he had always maintained, you know, he w he, he,
he made a lot of money off of his books about, um,
justice and hi, and the magic, you know,
defending his magic bully bullets theory. He always said,
if anybody comes to me with new evidence, I'll look at it with an open mind.
So I had sent him a persuasive letter while his people, uh,
they finally said, all right,
if you have these documents showing that this doctor who treated Ruby,
you know, and within the 24 hours, he lost his mind, uh,
specter will look at them and then decide if he'll talk to you, fax 'em to us.
And at that point, that was 2002.
I had lost the magazine story and I didn't have a book deal.
So I was operating entirely on my own. I said,
I can't send this stuff to you because it's my smoking gun,
the letters between got leave and, and Wes describing all the experiment.
So finally specter agreed to talk to me on the phone for a few minutes.
And it was amazing.
He called me from the Senate floor while they were waiting to vote on whether or
not they were gonna invade Iraq. This was 2002. Oh.
So we were only supposed to talk for a few minutes.
And when I explained what I had and what it showed west had, you know,
involved with, at the time he treated Ruby, he said, well,
if you're not gonna send this stuff to me, I don't know. You know,
I need to see it. And I go, well, I, I can't send it to you. And he said, well,
you wanna meet me? Cuz I told him I was in Philadelphia visiting my folks.
And he he's was from Philadelphia too. He says, I'm there on the weekend.
I'll meet you Saturday. I have a squash game at the Windham hotel,
meet me there. Christ squash <laugh>.
So we had a meeting set up, uh, for like three days later.
And this is something I'm always second guessing about. I made a decision.
I don't think I got too.
I don't think I've ever really got paranoid during this.
But I specter had been a long term Senator.
He was running for reelection and it was the first time in his career that the
polls were against him. That his opponent was, uh,
they were predicting that he was gonna lose. I specter was gonna lose. Uh,
he had also, you know, defended this magic bullet theory forever.
I mean more people knew him for the Kennedy assassination than anything else.
I thought. So if I do meet with him and I show him these documents,
maybe it was grandiosemy too. I thought he's gonna go, oh my God,
I need to be part of their, you know, exposure. Cuz if he,
he didn't and walked away from it,
I thought they were important enough that he would know that that would,
you know, once they were publicized and he had the opportunity to say, Hey,
we need to look into this and didn't he would look bad. So then I thought,
well maybe he's gonna two things. He's either gonna use it for, uh,
to get publicity, have a press conference and help him reelection.
Or he's gonna use it to be the hero of it and
run with it before I published a book. And then I'll just be a footnote,
you know, to all this cuz he took it. So I canceled the meeting the morning of,
oh, I called up his press secretary, uh,
and his cell phone, like three phones I had for him. And I said,
you have to tell Senator specter. I am so sorry, but there's an emergency.
I've gotta go back to Los Angeles.
I actually was scheduled to go the day after on Sunday.
So it was a lie and I didn't talk to anyone. I just left the message.
And I said, I I'm so sorry,
but I obviously I've worked so hard to get this meaning. It's embarrassing,
but I have to go back. So, um, I left my parents' place,
um, to go to the post office cuz I had been there for three months.
I was actually writing the first version of the proposal at their place to get
away from my friends and you know,
all the distractions in LA and I was only going for like 15 minutes. I go mom,
if that press secretary calls, I told them I was leaving.
So tell him that I'm I just went to the airport and I, and I apologize.
And she goes, well, I can't lie to a press secretary. I go, well, you got to,
so I go to the post office and I come home 15 minutes later and she's like,
as white as a ghost, I go, what? And she goes, Senator specter called, I go,
you mean the press? Ecretary she goes, no, he called himself.
He to know what happened, why you changed your mind and why you were canceling.
And I had to lie to him and I don't lie. I go, but I lied to the Senator.
You know, he was a big deal in Pennsylvania back then. And so, um,
I don't know if that was a mistake on my part. I think, you know, 20,
20 hindsight, I should have done it and taken my chances. I did go, who.
Knows what he would've done. I know that's the thing.
That's a very powerful man. And if he thought that he was in danger, yeah.
He could have driven off a cliff <laugh>.
I never, I mean, I really didn't try to think like that through all those years.
I got, I would've thought like.
That when it comes to AR inspectorter. I mean,
do you know how deep that guy had to be in on that to come up with that whack?
I know magic.
That theory. Yeah.
Yeah. That theory's so bad.
The fact that that actually gets debated and the fact that it never gets brought
up,
that there were more bullet fragments in Connelly's body than there were missing
from that bullet. Yeah. And the fact that anyone who knows anything about guns,
right? Any, anyone who's ever shot a gun has seen what a bullet, when,
when a bullet shatters bone mm-hmm,
<affirmative> what it looks like would look at that bullet and think that bullet
went through two human beings. Right. Right. And the fact that the,
the reason why they had to make up this theory in the first place was cuz a guy
was hit by a Rick ricochet on the underpass. Yeah.
You know the whole story you behind that. Well, here's what.
I did.
I tried not to lose myself any more than I had to in each
compartmentalized area I was going into. So with the Kennedy assassination,
I just did a superficial cause like Manson.
I was never interested in anything so-called conspiracies. Yeah.
I had never cared about Ken or John Kennedy assassination.
But once I found out that west was connected to Ruby and again,
that was a moment that I was like, oh no, I mean,
first it was west and the CIA and then I'm like, and Ruby,
how can I not look at the Kennedy assassination?
So I kept my focus narrowly just on Ruby Oswald, west specter.
I looked a little bit of the magic bullet and agree with you,
but I never did a deep dive into a lot of that stuff.